Create Blog Post “hacktoberfest-dos-and-donts” (#1724)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/hacktoberfest-dos-and-donts.md

---
title: Hacktoberfest Do's and Don'ts

> description: Hacktoberfest is a yearly month long event where developers

Reviewer: had to look this up. when it's an adjective, you put a hyphen.
```suggestion
description: Hacktoberfest is a yearly month-long event where developers
```

>   contribute to participating opensource projects for a chance to win swag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  contribute to participating open-source projects for a chance to win swag.
```

author: mofi-rahman
published: true
published_at: 2021-09-28T15:34:01.065Z
updated_at: 2021-09-22T15:34:01.090Z
category: inspiration
tags:
  - hacktoberfest
  - opensource
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---
# What is Hacktoberfest

> Running for the 8th year Hacktoberfest is an annual month long event where developers of all experience level get to contribute to open source projects, participate in events, complete pull request, and support these projects financially. Hacktoberfest is a great way for both new and experienced developers get to work on open source projects. It is also a great way for project maintainer to attract new developer to help maintain the projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running for the 8th year Hacktoberfest is an annual month-long event where developers of all experience levels get to contribute to open-source projects, participate in events, complete pull requests, and support these projects financially. Hacktoberfest is a great way for both new and experienced developers to get to work on open-source projects. It is also an opportunity for project maintainers to attract new developers to help maintain the projects. 
```

## What works really well

> After about 8 years of Hactoberfest, it has become more or less a household name in developer community. Every year over hundred thousand developer participate in events and submitting PRs. Although Digital Ocean and Dev.to are primary sponsors of the event, many companies have their own events with swag for folks to join in and make the event even bigger. The whole developer community comes together to make this event a success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After about 8 years of Hactoberfest, it has become more or less a household name in the developer community. Every year over a hundred thousand developers participate in events and submit PRs (pull requests). Although Digital Ocean and Dev.to are the primary sponsors, many companies have their own events with swag for folks to join that makes the event even bigger. The whole developer community comes together to make this event a success.
```

## The dark side of Hacktoberfest

> Hacktoberfest is a great idea. Open source is the backbone of the software industry and having more people interested in using and contributing to open source is a good thing for the community. But like most things, there is always a catch. During Hacktoberfest there are chances of winning various swag like t-shirts and stickers and it incentivizes completing four pull requests faster. Which in turn causes many people to open trivial and spam pull requests to popular open source projects. The problem was so bad, last year Hacktoberfest had to change rules so projects had to opt in with tags. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hacktoberfest is a great idea. Open source is the backbone of the software industry and having more people interested in using and contributing is a good thing for the community. But like most things, there is always a catch. During Hacktoberfest there are chances of winning various swag like t-shirts and stickers and it incentivizes completing four pull requests faster. Which in turn caused many people to open trivial and spam pull requests to popular open-source projects. The problem was so bad last year, Hacktoberfest had to change the rules so projects had to opt-in with tags.
```

All that being said, here are some of the Do's and Don'ts of Hacktoberfest from a participant's and maintainer's perspective.

## Do's

> * Be respectful to each other. As participant, be mindful of project maintainers time. In most cases maintainers are volunteering their time to work on these projects. Demanding to get your PR merged is not helpful, nor is it okay to create a PR that fixes a typo or grammar that 4 other person has already fixed. For maintainers, if you have the time please try to create proper expectations of what the project needs help in. For many this will be first interaction they have with open source contribution. Your action may deter someone from helping in open source. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Be respectful to each other. As a participant, be mindful of project maintainers' time. In most cases, maintainers are volunteering their time to work on these projects. Demanding to get your PR merged is not helpful, nor is it okay to create a PR that fixes a typo or grammar that four other people have already fixed. For maintainers, if you have the time, please try to create proper expectations of what the project needs. For many, this will be the first interaction they have with making an open-source contribution. Your action may deter someone from helping in open source. 
```

> * As participants, read the project code of conduct and contributions guidelines. Many questions can be avoided by just looking through the docs and previous issues. Remember the ratio of participant to maintainers is pretty low. As maintainers, try to make it easy for people to find information. A good code of conduct and contributions guide go a long way to help folks get the information they need without requiring to create a new issue.

Reviewer: I think you may want to say the ratio of participants to maintainers is high. Like if I used the ratio of zombies to survivors is low, doesn't sound that bad, right? (I watched "The Walking Dead" last night. haha)
```suggestion
* As participants, read the project code of conduct and contributions guidelines. Many questions can be answered by just looking through the docs and previous issues. Remember, the ratio of participants to maintainers is pretty high. As maintainers, try to make it easy for people to find information. A good code of conduct and contributions guide goes a long way to help folks get the information they need without requiring them to create a new issue.
```

> * Look for projects that have \`Hacktoberfest\` and \`Good first issue\` tags. An easy way to find this is looking in the [Hacktoberfest guide](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/resources/beginners). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Look for projects that have \`Hacktoberfest\` and \`Good first issue\` tags. An easy way to find this is by looking in the [Hacktoberfest guide](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/resources/beginners). 
```

> * If you are project maintainer and would like to get some contributions you will need to setup the repositories first. In previous years all repos were eligible which led to some problems for maintainer. So this year you will have to setup your repositories beforehand. [Follow these steps](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/resources/maintainers) from official Hactoberfest website. Also be prepared to spend some time with the PRs in either approving, rejecting or commenting on them. While you volunteer your time, so does the participants. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are a project maintainer and would like to get some contributions, you will need to prepare the repositories first. In previous years, all repos were eligible which led to some problems for the maintainers. So this year you will have to set up your repositories beforehand. [Follow these steps](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/resources/maintainers) from the official Hacktoberfest website. Also, be prepared to spend some time with the PRs in either approving, rejecting, or commenting on them. While you volunteer your time, so do the participants. 
```

## Don'ts

> * As participants, don't create spam PRs. You are excited about making your Hacktoberfest goals but in the other end of a spam PR is a real human that is spending their time trying to maintain an open source project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As participants, don't create spam PRs. You are excited about making your Hacktoberfest goals but on the other end of a spam PR is a real human that is spending their time trying to maintain an open-source project. 
```

> * Do not harass maintainer to merge your PR. A gentle reminder is not 10+ comments and emails. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not harass the maintainer to merge your PR. A gentle reminder is not 10+ comments and emails. 
```

* Do not go about fixing grammatical and spelling errors unless the contribution guide explicitly asks for it. 
* As maintainers, do not burn yourself out trying to entertain every PR and interaction. 

> * Do not admonish folks for their bad PRs. Try to assume positive intent. You are the ambassador of open source for many of these developers who might be trying out open source for the first time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not admonish folks for their bad PRs. Try to assume positive intent. You are the open-source ambassador for many of these developers who might be participating in open source for the first time. 
```

> Finally, have fun with it. This is probably the biggest festivals us developers get. Yes we have had our problems with it. But I still believe it to be primarily a force for good.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, have fun with it. This is probably the biggest festival we developers get. Yes, we have had our problems with it, but I still believe it to be primarily a force for good.
```
